The behavior you're seeing suggests that the program may be waiting for more input or that there is an issue with how the buffer overflow is interacting with the program. The fact that sending b'a' * 48 works but b'a' * 40 + p32(0xdeadbeef) results in "Receiving all data indefinitely" could indicate that the program is not fully exploiting the overflow or that it expects additional input or specific conditions to proceed.

Here are some possible explanations and solutions to address this:
1. Program May Be Waiting for More Input:

After sending the payload, the program might be waiting for additional input. The program may not have fully processed the buffer overflow or it may be expecting additional interactions (e.g., newline, or more data) before proceeding.

Solution: Try sending a newline or some extra characters after sending the payload to see if it triggers the next step.

payload = b'a' * 40 + p32(0xdeadbeef)
p.sendline(payload + b'\n')  # Try appending a newline character

2. Program's Buffer Size vs. Return Address:

The difference between b'a' * 48 and b'a' * 40 + p32(0xdeadbeef) suggests that the program may require more space before reaching the return address, which might not be correctly aligned with the 40 byte offset. If 48 bytes works, it is likely that the program's buffer is structured in a way that the return address starts at byte 48.

Solution: Try sending a payload that contains 48 bytes of 'a', followed by the 0xdeadbeef address, and see if it causes the program to behave as expected.

payload = b'a' * 48 + p32(0xdeadbeef)
p.sendline(payload)

3. Program May Have Stack Protections (ASLR, Stack Canaries, etc.):

Some programs use protections like ASLR (Address Space Layout Randomization) and stack canaries to prevent buffer overflow exploits. If the binary is compiled with such protections, your input might be ignored or the program might hang due to these security measures.

Solution: Check if the binary has stack protections using checksec. If it has protections, the buffer overflow may not be successful, and additional steps such as bypassing these protections may be required (e.g., using return-oriented programming (ROP) chains or disabling ASLR for testing).

You can check if ASLR or stack canaries are enabled by running the following:

checksec --fortify-file=all

If ASLR is enabled, try disabling it for testing:

echo 0 > /proc/sys/kernel/randomize

4. Reading Output Properly:

It’s possible that you’re not correctly receiving the program’s output after sending the payload. The program might have printed something before hanging or crashing. You should try receiving output after sending the payload, but also be mindful of how the output is being returned. Use recvuntil() or recvline() to capture the expected output, if the program prints any message or crash information.

Solution: Use recvuntil() to read until a specific output or use recvline() to capture the program’s response. For example:

p.sendline(b'a' * 40 + p32(0xdeadbeef))
output = p.recvuntil(b'EOF')  # Adjust 'EOF' or the expected output delimiter
print(output.decode())

Or you can try receiving a specific number of bytes after sending the payload:

p.sendline(b'a' * 40 + p32(0xdeadbeef))
output = p.recv(1024)  # Try to read the first 1024 bytes of output
print(output.decode())

5. Program Might Be Hanging After Overflow:

If the program is designed in a way that it gets stuck or hangs after the overflow is triggered, it could be because the overwritten return address is leading to invalid memory locations or a crash. The program might not crash immediately, but it could freeze or behave unexpectedly.

Solution: Use GDB to debug the program's behavior after the overflow, and check if it is properly reaching the location where the return address is modified.

Here’s how you might debug the program using gdb:

gdb ./ch13

Then, set a breakpoint and check how the program behaves after the payload:

(gdb) break main
(gdb) run

This will help you understand if the program hangs at a specific point.
6. Buffer Alignment or Stack Layout:

Depending on the system's architecture (e.g., 32-bit vs 64-bit), you may need to ensure that the payload is aligned correctly in the stack. For example, a 64-bit system might require 56 bytes of filler before the return address, while a 32-bit system might require 48 bytes.

Solution: If you're on a 64-bit system, try using p64() instead of p32() for the return address:

payload = b'a' * 56 + p64(0xdeadbeef)  # 56 bytes of padding for 64-bit systems
p.sendline(payload)

Summary:

    Try sending extra input (e.g., a newline) after the payload.
    Verify the buffer size and return address alignment. If 48 bytes works, adjust your payload to match that.
    Check if the program is protected by stack canaries or ASLR, and test with protections disabled.
    Use recvuntil() or recvline() to capture the output after sending the payload.
    Use GDB to understand the behavior of the program after the overflow.

Let me know if you need further assistance!